[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
in similarly to our last exercise,
we're just calling alerter later.
So the setTimeout is
JavaScript calling it later,
in one second.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
here, we are deciding to call it later.
Explicitly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thumbs?
It's okay if you have a middle thumb.
Most people don't understand this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thumbs online.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
What is most confusing about
this idea right now?
>> Speaker 2: So
I get the part where you're storing
closure alert in the funcStorer and
that becomes a function and so
there's like that permanence with x?
Because you're not really calling
anything, you know what I mean?
But I still don't understand
why is that called closure, or
what's the closure in it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
this part is the closure, The closure is
the function that you can call later.
And it's called a closure because
it holds, it has reference
to a variable from the environment.
From its parent environment.
So, this is a closure.
FuncStorer is a closure because
it holds reference to x.
So x is initialized and
manipulated in a different scope.
So we could do a bunch of stuff to x.
In this case, we're just adding to it, but
you can imagine that you could
do a lot of different things.
And since funcStorer holds
a reference to the environment,
it's a closure.
>> Speaker 2: If you just
wrap all that code in an anonymous
function with no name,
is that all that code would be
in a closure as a function?
Is that true, I guess?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No.
I'm not sure.
So you're saying if I
wrapped all of this in?l
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, because the way I'm
saying it is you can either
assign a function to a variable.
Assign, if you took off the line where
it says var funcStore = closureAlert,
if you took the parentheses off,
you'd just be reassigning the function to
funcStorer and it wouldn't be a closure.
But if you leave the parentheses on,
it is a closure.
So really it's just a function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's because
the key here about why we're calling
it is cuz it's storing a function.
So this closureAlert is returning
a function.
>> Speaker 2: So
what's the difference between var
funcStorer = closureAlert without
parentheses and that one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure,
that's a great question, so let's do that.
So we can first just.
Oops.
So there's our closure
alert, right?
If we just type out closure alert it's
just a function that's not called.
So it just prints out the function body.
So if we call it funkStore.
This is where you store the funk.
And we just assign that to
closureAlert like this.
It's just gonna assign
the function body of closureAlert.
So now if we look at funkStore, with a k.
It's just a function body,
and we could call it.
What is this going to return?
>> Speaker 2: A new alerter function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
It might return something
that looks like this,
right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right?
Whoops.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And what we want is,
we wanna be able to call the alerter
function, from funcStorer.
So what we could do [blank audio] So
this is myAlertFunc =
closureAlert ();.
Now myAlertFunc.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is
actually that function, which then you
can call and it will actually alert.
Versus, what did I call it, funcStore?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If I call it,
it's just returning that function.
We'd have to do something like this for
it to work.
And that's just weird.
And it wouldn't work,
if we wanted to do it twice.
It would always just alert once.
So by storing that alerter function in
a variable and being able to call it more
than once, we can continue to
have access to that parent scope,
to this variable x
>> Speaker 3: So
its not like you have to have a global
variable, you know what I mean?
I'm trying to think of very simple
real world applications for
this as opposed to saying I'm gonna set
x to be a global variable at my window.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
>> Speaker 3: And messing with that.
It's a compact way to can still have that
functionality.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: But keeping it local.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, totally.
So we wanted to,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see, so
another example here unless we
have questions with this example?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: The alert ++x Why does that
increment x?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's just
a shorthand.
You can think of it saying x-
>> Speaker 4: The alert,
that gives you an alert box, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it would be in the alert.
So it's gonna increment it,
and then it will alert it,
and that creates an alert box.
That's just a browser feature.
>> Speaker 4: After that,
CNB one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, right here?
>> Speaker 4: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: And so
when you're saving it down at the log,
let me see if I understand this,
you're not saving only the function but
all of the value function,
after the function writing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, so
you're saving all the values
within the function and
also all the values it has
access to in the scope.
So also it has access
to this parent scope.
So it has access to its own scope
as well as the previous scope.
Which is the same as how
we were doing it here.
We just alert X and this alerter
function had access to X up here.
And then for this example,
we have the set time out.
Even though alerter's being called later,
and one second.
It still holds access
to its' parent scope.
The only difference for this one is
that we're actually just returning
it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then, once we return it,
then we can call it later.
So for the set timeout example,
JavaScript's calling it later.
In this example, we're calling it later.
We're calling it later here.
[BLANK AUDIO] One more question.
[BLANK AUDIO]
>> Speaker 5: Can you do solo y's or
y?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why you would do this?
>> Speaker 5: What's in it for
the programmer?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's in it for
There's a lot.
>> Speaker 5: Give us the top three,
here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The top three?
Well, I'm gonna go through
different use cases, next.
But I mean,
the biggest thing is privacy, right?
Is that you can make an interface into,
when we get into the module pattern
I'll show you how you can kind of.
You can make classes, basically,
classes in JavaScript using closure, and
you can limit how your program can
interface with certain values.
So once it's private,
the only thing that can access it once
you have this closure scope here.
The only thing that can access and
manipulate that data up
here is this function.
And so you can really limit
on how you can manipulate whatever
variables you have in the closure.
So that's the biggest thing.
But there's a lot of
different use cases for
it.
>> Speaker 5: There's one more
question here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 5: The funcStorer calls
alerter, she's asking if that's correct.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
It doesn't call closureAlert.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No.
It does not call closure alert.
Cuz what happens Is once
we call closureAlert,
whatever that function returns is
actually being stored in the variable.
It's not actually, when we refer to
funcStorer later it's not looking up and
calling closureAlert again.
ClosureAlert at this point
is being called once.
And then when we reference it.
Down here?
It's just referencing whatever this
had returned from the beginning.
So when we call it again,
it's not recalling closureAlert cause
if that was the case, we would be
resetting x to zero every time.